Impressions of the Culture at Dev Bootcamp
11.2.2014

Exciting, but Raw
Dev Bootcamp is very exciting to me. I love immersive experiences; I can think of no better way to learn something than by doing it every day surrounded by other people who are also doing the same thing while being coached by others who are masters of that thing. You know how some people love to travel? I think it's because they're immersed in something totally new and foreign. This is like that! There are some setbacks, though. I'm often overwhelmed by the volume of tasks before me and I get extremely frustrated when the tasks or information presented to me is redundant or retarded (as in, slow). In his Fireside chat (https://vimeo.com/85001014), Shereef, the founder of Dev Bootcamp addresses this exact sentiments.

Kitchen vs Table or Entitlement vs Responsibility
In Shereef's first session of teaching Ruby on Rails beginners enough to be employable Ruby on Rails developers, he noticed that the twenty people he was teaching took responsibility for their own learning. He calls this a kitchen mentality; I think that the trainees recognized that because the program was so raw and unpolished that they would need to do everything they could to better their own learning, because if they didn't, no one else would. They recognized that they were responsible for their success and that while Shereef wanted them to succeed, they would also, in a way, have to fend for themselves.

Shereef noticed that in later cohorts, when the program had been polished some, students sometimes exhibited an entitlement or "table" mentality; that they expected to pay the fee, show up, do the work, and become developers (and probably get a job). In this mindset, the onus for their success is shifted from the students to the teachers or program.

I find myself in this early stage of the program, week 1 of phase 0, experiencing both mentalities. I'm so excited about learning Ruby on Rails quickly, but I've also been disappointed when I ran into steps in the application proccess or prep-work proccess (phase 0) that contain broken links or are out of order. I feel entitled to a smooth, easy experience, and I think what Shereef would have us do and what a fundamental part of being a developer is, is to, when we notice something, fix it ourselves. In our curriculum, we can propose changes via github to the prepwork that we are doing; in fact we are encouraged to do this. I'm a little overwhelmed at this point, but I think I will soon take the leap. This is empowering.